# **Conclusion**

### From this project, we conclude that...

We learned about how the automotive trends in the U.S. has been on a constant rise. By analyzing the three visualization, we learned that as a result, this rise has led to a rise in pollution levels. It only makes sense that with the increase in the number of automotive vehicles, the emissions of harmful gasses has increased as well. There is a need for automotive fuel use to be made more environmentally friendly and efficient; the current ways are only harming the environment. The data visualizations give us a clear idea of how the trends of automobile performance, technology, and emissions have changed over the years. It also helps us draw conclusions that when we did not have efficient engine technologies, the emission levels was only on a rise. But with the introduction of other more efficient technologies like electrically powered engines, the emissions have gone down while the performance has also taken a hit. In the future, we need to create an efficient engine technology which reduces emissions while also keeping up with the performance of other fueled engines. **It is only then that we will see an improvement in our situation.**


We were also successfully able to answer our research questions as follows-

**Q. How has fuel efficiency and other attributes of automotive in the U.S. changed over time?**

A.Based on the graph, we can observe a few trends regarding automotive attributes from 1975. From 1975 to the early 1980s, the fuel economy increased dramatically. However, the increase of MPG came at the cost of engine power and weight. We can combine this observation with the oil crisis that was happening during that period, [(1)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1970s_energy_crisis)  We infer that the car manufactures scrambled to lower weight and engine power to achieve a high fuel efficiency. As a result, the weight and engine power started to recover while MPG increased slightly. Based on our observations from the second visualization page—the market share of automotive technology, we conclude that new fuel technologies was developed to increase the engine performance without costing a heavy toll on the fuel economy. It can be analyzed from the graph that engine power, car weight, and acceleration continued to increase throughout the 90s, however, the fuel economy was decreasing at a relatively slow rate, about 3% every 5 years. Then at around 2005, things changed once again. The weight started to level out, engine power and acceleration continued to increase, while fuel economy started to climb up once again at a relatively quick rate, around 10% each 5 years. We deduce that new technology played an important role in this change, and this trend is likely to be continued into the future.


**Q. What kind of correlation exists between the change in automotive technology and their fuel efficiency and other attributes?**

A.
* There are 2 noticeable changes in the trends of this graph regarding engine technologies. One happened around mid 80s, when carburetor started to phase out, and port injection and throttle body injection began to gain huge market shares. Another one was around late 2000s, when direct injection began to rise in popularity. These 2 findings correlate to the trends we observed in the first visualization, the trends of automotive attributes.
* There are 2 noticeable changes of trends in this graph regarding transmission technology as well. One happened around mid 80s, when automatic without lock up feature started to phase out, manual started to decrease, and automatic with lock up started its way of gaining huge market shares. Another one was around 2000s, when continuously variable transmission began to gain market shares. These 2 findings correlate to the trends we observed in the first visualization, the trends of automotive attributes.
* From this graph, we can see that the front wheel drivetrain occupied a large market shares, and FWD vehicles generally have better fuel economy[(2)](https://www.usautosales.info/blogs/1924/the-perfect-car/front-wheel-drive-vs-rear-wheel-drive/). The gaining popularity of all wheel drive vehicles in recent years shows that despite the slightly poor fuel efficiency associated with AWD, the improvement in technology is likely to continue to offset the negativity of AWD systems.


**Q. Are there any comparisons that can be made with fuel efficiency and the air quality?**

A. As we can see from this graph, the vehicles miles traveled and the population was increasing at a relatively steady rate. From our first visualization we concluded that the fuel efficiency of new cars was also improving at a steady rate without sacrificing performance. So, the question that comes up is whether or not the improved fuel efficiency could offset the increase in potential pollution caused by the growth of our society. From this graph, we can conclude that the improvement in fuel efficiency indeed offset the increase in miles traveled as well as population. While the vehicle miles traveled increased about 2 times since 1970, the pollutants generated by vehicles were in fact decreasing. Carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter, which are the among the most prominent pollutants from vehicle emissions[(3)](https://auto.howstuffworks.com/air-pollution-from-cars.htm), have decreased at least 50% since the first available record year.
